# Speakers extrapolate community-level lexical knowledge from individual linguistic encounters

Speakers vary their lexical choices based on individual-level influences, for example, tending to reuse the same words as their interlocutors. However, it is unclear how lexical choices are affected by community-level factors, e.g., whether the interlocutor is from their own speech community (in-community partner) or from another community (out-community partner). Indeed, we know very little about how speakers establish community-level linguistic knowledge in general. In three experiments, we examined (i) how speakers’ referential choices varied as a function of their partner’s choices and speech community, and (ii) how speakers’ extrapolation of their own choices to a subsequent partner was modulated by their partners’ speech communities. In experiment 1, Spanish participants played two sessions of an online picture-matching-and-naming task with different confederates, but using the same pictures across sessions. In Session 1, the confederate was either an in-community partner (Spanish) or an out-community partner (Latin American); in Session 2, the confederate was either from the same community as the first partner or not. In Session 1, participants’ referential choices were influenced by the confederate’s choices, but not by their community. In Session 2, however, participants generalized their expressions from Session 1 based on their confederates’ communities. Experiment 2 replicated this pattern of results in Mexican participants, and Experiment 3 confirmed that these results were driven by differences in confederates’ communities, rather than perceived linguistic status. Taken together, these results suggest that speakers encode speech community information during language processing and store that information to inform future contexts of language use, even when such community information has not affected speakers’ language use during that particular linguistic encounter. Critically, these results show that speakers establish community-level knowledge by extrapolating linguistic information from individual-level experiences. 


Data & Analysis scripts, online materials, and preprint (submitted to Cognition) are available here. 
